hey it's me Destin welcome back to
smarter every day
so you're probably wondering if you've
been watching the Amazon series how it
took an 8-pin a little scrap of paper
and a camera into the middle of the
jungle and walked out with footage of
ants carrying a little sign that says
smarter every day it's actually pretty
simple than gross
you pee on the paper I know sounds a
little weird but you got to realize that
leaf cutter ants forage for sodium but
before I show you how exactly we did
this and you get to see us make the
video I want to show you a leaf cutter
ant colony during the daytime and then
we'll go back and check out the same
colony at night we get smarter every day
this whole area is a colony is that what
you call it yeah these colonies are
known to just be giant they're forming
ants so they take in those leaves they
grow fungus on it so that's a tenth of
that fungus very very regularly so the
smaller ones they really ride on the
leaf and they clean the leaf and they
also protect the carrion ant from any
decapitating flies that are in the area
really mm-hmm they clean the leaf on the
waited colony yeah so one guys like a
bigger ant will be carrying it and the
little cleaner ant will be on top
they're protecting it and cleaning it
from any fungus or any crazy stuff that
may be on the leaf awesome is red or
millions of ants inside this colony so
this is one of several entrances
probably one of their main highways that
they used to go and collect leaves I'm
also told they have one of the most
complex social structures yeah that's
true yeah I mean down to the finest of
details even like the ants I go out and
cut once they get old maybe like three
months old and they can't cut as well
then they become carrying ants so they
kind of retire as a leaf cutter and then
they become a leaf carrier these are
leaf cutter ant trails they look like
people trails but they're not one way
you can tell you get really close you
see next to them you see all the little
cut cut leads so you can see some of
them are starting to come out a little
bit so I bet you if we came back in a
few hours
come out go for the trees
so what we're going to do is we're going
to cut out little pieces of paper and
we're going to put some salty liquid
onto a piece of paper we're thinking
that it will entice them but I'm going
to find out
put your headlamp on the leaf there you
go there you go
all right so what do you wanna do first
I've got the worst smarter every day one
and I got it wet on the backside so it
doesn't quite alright it's it doesn't
bleed
you
right you know I know mostly the area so
I put it right here yeah you want pliers
we want to put need a bigger can we make
it bigger
no focus was perfect
so that's it that's how you get leaf
cutter ants to carry your sign special
thanks to mr. Torres here of course
entomologist he's a guy that came up
with the idea work well all right that's
it get smarter every day
you're not playing nice anymore
going for my face imagine that even if I
woulda thought so this one's too big
so of course leak letter ants are
cutting which is still pretty cool
sounding yeah it's about 20 yards away